---
title: Classes in JavaScript
module: 7
jotted: false
---

# Classes in JavaScript

Enough talking, let's explore how to start writing our own classes, so you can see why they are so powerful!

## The `class` Keyword

The first thing we need is a new keyword! To write a class, we are going to use the keyword `class`.

This keyword is always followed by the class name.

The name is followed by an open curly brace and the class ends with an close curly brace.  Between the curly braces, properties/attributes and methods are contained.

#### Class Naming Conventions

Before we can go further, let's first talk about class naming conventions. For all except one rule, you should follow the same naming conventions that you do for variable names.

The one exception, is that you should start class names with a **capital** letter.

#### In Practice

In practice, defining a class will have the following structure.

```js
class MyFavoriteClass {
    // class methods/functions
}
```
<br/>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IXiYpXsUqA4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Methods

When defining a class, _functions_ are the things that do stuff in the class

_Methods_ are written **within** the function block - between the curly braces - of a class definition.

Writing methods within classes is practically identical to defining standalone functions.

#### Method Name

To write a method, you simply need to write its name, following [function naming conventions]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-10/defining-functions/#naming-functions) (i.e. lower case letter to start the method name).

#### Input Parameters

This is then followed by a set of parentheses containing any input parameters for the specific method.

#### Function Block

Finally, you add a function block (`{}`). You will put all of the stuff for the method to do, within this function block.

#### Multiple Methods

To write multiple methods, simply separate each method with a new line. (This is more for style than anything error specific). Then repeat the above steps.

#### Example Code

```js
// a class definition
class MyFavoriteClass {

    // method 1
    sayHello( name1, name2 ) {
        // method function block
        // Do stuff here
        console.log(name1 + " says hello to " + name2);
    }

    // another method
    callMeCharlie() {
        // method function block
        console.log("Well call me Charlie");
    }
}
```

Not bad right? Let's take a look at the constructor.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/geQqadMdPWw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>