---
title: Homework
module: 5
jotted: false
---

# Homework

This week, we are going to start creating a memory matching game.  Imagine a game where you have 10 squares and you need to pick two squares and see if they match. If they match, you get a point and those images appear, if they don't match, the images are hidden again.  Each time the second image is chosen, you are going to count that as a single attempt.  You will summarize all the attempts and send those to a final summary page after all the images have been found.  After all the images have been matched, you are going to   In order to do this, you are going to use arrays, loops, if statements, cookies or the query string, and the Math functions (particulary random). Also, it's possible you might need to use some debugging tools too.  Whew!  Seems like a lot especially in one week.  So, we are going to break it up.

This week, we are going to focus on creating an array of images and an array of blanks.  You are going to print out all the blank images from your blank array.  You are also going to create an array of randomized images in your actual image array.  This one will be a little trickier because you will have to determine if an image is already in the array twice.  You can assume that both arrays are fixed to 10 images.

Once, you have those two arrays built, you are to create and display the first blank array.  Then, if the user clicks on an blank image, the corresponding image from the actual image array should appear.  

You do not need to go further for this week.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9MaXUexnZlc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Homework 5 Example

[Example files](https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/441-WebTech-Spring2019/tree/master/Week%205%20Examples/HW%205%20Example)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cvkoMTJdnns" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>